---
title: Bio
image: https://luzmariasanchez.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/gallery/image/original/luz-maria.jpg
---

**Luz María Sánchez** (MX) Luz María Sánchez is a transdisciplinary artist, writer, and scholar. She holds a Doctorate in Art from the Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona. Her artistic research extends to sound and language as a techno-scientific machine and builds upon environmental urgency. Sánchez received two consecutive Prix Ars Electronica’s Honorary Mentions (2020 & 2021) for her projects Vis.[un]necessary force #3 and #4. In 2015 she was granted the Climate Change Artist Commission by the Land Heritage Institute (Texas) and in 2014 she received the First Prize Award for the inaugural Biennial de las Fronteras (Mexico). Sánchez has authored five books, curated exhibitions and transdisciplinary conferences and presented by invitation at leading institutions such as the Casa Encendida, Madrid (2024); University of the Arts London UAL (2024, 2020), the University Montpellier 3 (2023), Freie Universität Berlin (2022), School of the Art Institute Chicago SAIC (2021), and ZKM | Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe (2017). With a professional career of 27+ years, Sánchez has exhibited throughout Europe and the Americas, most recently at Arsenal Galeria Miejska, Poznań (2024); Trondheim Elektroniske Kunstsenter | TEKS.studio, Trondheim (2024); Haus Kunst Mitte, Berlin (2023); Opalka Gallery, Albany NY (2023); Circuits and Currents, Athens (2023); Vincent Price Art Museum VPAM, Los Angeles (2022); Ars Electronica, Linz (2021, 2020); MUAC, Mexico City (2019); WRO Art Center, Wroclaw (2019); CCCB/Hangar, Barcelona (2019); Museum of Modern Art, Mexico City (2018); and ZKM | Center for Art and Media, Karlsruhe (2017). Luz María Sánchez is a member of Norske Billedkunstnere NBK (2021 to present). During Fall 2024 she will be artist-in-residence in Berlin, through a grant of the city of Trondheim, and in April 2025, she will be presenting her latest monograph on Samuel Beckett at the London Beckett Seminar. 

