---
offline: false
title: Manuel Rocha Iturbide 
from: México
job: Composer and sound artist.
url: https://www.artesonoro.net/
image: https://luzmariasanchez.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/guest/image/original/04Rocha.jpg
---

Born in 1963 in Mexico City, Manuel Rocha Iturbide is a transdisciplinary and intermedia artist. His work has been traversed by science and technology, philosophy and social anthropology, working in disciplines such as sculpture, installation, photography, drawing, graphic design and painting, as well as instrumental and electroacoustic music. His creative lines go through synesthesia, conceptualism, immersion, chance, listening to the environment, improvisation and constant experimentation with the hybridization of different media and languages. He also works as a teacher and researcher, tasks that have inserted me into an intermedial process of interaction between knowledge and creation, especially with the theme of historical memory mediated by technology, obsolescence, and the archive as an art form. He studied composition at the ENM in the University of Mexico (1981-1989) and photography at the Taller de los lunes workshop with Pedro Meyer (1985-1989). In 1991 he finishes an MFA in electronic music and composition at Mills College, Oakland California. In Paris, he takes a one-year course in composition and computer music at IRCAM, where he studies with Bryan Fernyhough (1991-92). In 1992 he starts his doctoral thesis in the field of Science and Technologie of the Arts at the University of Paris VIII with a thesis related to quantum physics, sound and art, and he worked as a researcher at IRCAM developing Gist.


He has been a professional active artist since 1989 and has created installations, sculptures, photography, graphic works and intermedia art works presented at important international galleries and museums such as the Crousel gallery (Paris, 1993), Artists Space in NY USA (1997), the 1998 Sidney Biennale in Australia (1998), Project Rooms at the ARCO art fair (Madrid, 1999), SURGE gallery (Tokyo, 2000), Kyoto Art Center in (Kyoto, 2001), Avatar (Quebec, 2003), Koldo de Mixtelena (San Sebastián Spain, 2007), McBean Gallery (San Francisco California 2010), Xing Dong Chaeng Space for Contemporary Art (Beijing China 2011), MUAC Contemporary Art Museum (Mexico City, 2011 et 2016), Le Laboratoire Gallery (México City), Prada Foundation (Venice, 2014), Kunstraum, Kreuzberg Bethanien (Berlin, 2016), Lowe Art Museum (Miami Florida, 2022), etc. His music has been played through the American, European and Asian continents. In 2000 Rocha spent seven months in Japan with a Japan Foundation Fellowship where he worked doing photography and sound installations. In 2001 he founded the radio art workshop LEAS in Radio Educación in Mexico City, He did a two-month residency in Caracas Venezuela with a grant in order to do photography and soundscape recordings. 

He has worked also as a curator, being the co-founder and curator of the international sound art festival in Mexico City (1999-2002). He curated important sound art exhibitions such as Audio Elf in Colone Germany (2006), Sonoplastia at the MACO Museum (Oaxaca Mexico 2014), and Modos de Oír at  the Laboratorio de Arte Alameda Museum (CDMX 2018). His music has been played by important international ensembles like the Arditti String Quartet, performers like Aki Takahashi, and in important venues such as Festival de Synthése in Bourges France, Ircam, festival Métamorphoses in Paris (GRM), Tokyo Opera Concert Hall, Red Cat (Los Angeles), Bellas Artes (Mexico), etc. Some of his artistic works belong to important art collections such as the MUAC museum and Colección Jumex in Mexico City and Segnigi Collection in Miami Florida.


Rocha Iturbide is a researcher on different aesthetic fields and on the history of electroacoustic music and sound art in Mexico and Latin America. He has published numerous essays and two books. He teaches currently at the UAM Lerma University in the field of Digital Arts and composition at UNAM.